---
further-reading:
  - callbacks
---
With events, you can write code that says "when this happens, run this function". We call this kind of code an **event listener**, and the larger concept of writing code that sends and receives events is called [event-driven programming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event-driven_programming).

When your code runs, it doesn't run in a vacuum. The rest of the world keeps on living, and sometimes things happen outside of the code that affect how the code runs.

For example, maybe a user clicks a button on your web page. Or maybe a movie file that was taking a long time to load has finished loading. Or the GPS coordinates on a mobile device change because the user is walking around.

All of these are examples of **events**, which is just a way to say "something happened". In both the browser and in node.js, you can write JavaScript code that _listens for_ and _responds to_ various events.

There are three components to writing an event listener in JavaScript:

1. The event **target** (in node.js, this is called an _emitter_)
2. The **type** (or name) of the event
3. The **callback** function to run when the event happens (or _fires_)

Here is an example of an event listener that would run in the browser:

```javascript
var button = document.getElementById("#click-me");

button.addEventListener('click', function(evt) {
  alert('You clicked me!');
});
```

In the code above, the `button` is the event **target** (the button element that will fire the event), `'click'` is the event **type** (when the button is clicked, it fires a this type of event), and the function

```javascript
function(evt) {
  alert('You clicked me!');
}
```

is the **callback** (the code that will run when the event is triggered).

The method `addEventListener` is used to create event listeners in the browser. More information is available in [the documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget.addEventListener).
