---
title: Routing
further-reading:
---
In the context of web development, _routing_ describes the process by which
a web application receives a [request](/http-request) from a browser and decides
which code to run order to generate an appropriate [response](/http-response).
This process lies at the heart of _every_ web application.

How this works depends on the particular [programming
languages](/programming-language) and [libraries](/library) used, but the core
idea is the same:

1. The browser sends a request to our web application.
2. Our application looks at the request data.
3. Our application _routes_ the request to the appropriate chunk of code.
4. Our application calls that chunk of code to generate a response.
5. Our application sends the response back to the browser.
6. The browser renders the response.

Any routing system will need to express a few key ideas:

1. How do we match against the [parts of an incoming
   request](/http-request#components)?
2. How do we specify which code to call for a match?
3. How does the code-to-be-called specify the response?

## In Sinatra

Keeping the above key ideas in mind, here's a specific example using
[Sinatra](http://www.sinatrarb.com/) (a web [framework](/framework) for Ruby):

```ruby
require "sinatra"  # Load the Sinatra web framework

# Set up a chunk of code to call when GET requests come to /hello
get("/hello") do
  # Generate an HTML response to send to the browser
  body("<p>Hello, world!</p>")
end

# Set up a chunk of code to call when POST requests come to /hello
post("/hello") do
  # Generate an HTML response to send to the browser
  body("<p>Oh, a POST request!</p>")
end
```

In the above application we're specifying two possible "routing matches" and
the code to be run when a match occurs. The code-to-be-run is defined by the
`do ... end` blocks.  **Remember**, this is specific to Sinatra. *Other
frameworks will implement routing differently.*

Let's answer the general questions from above using this example.

1.  How do we match against the various parts of an incoming request?

    We're matching against two parts of the request data:

    1. The request's [ _type_ ](/http-request-method) (i.e., `GET`, `POST`, `DELETE`, etc.)
    2. The request's [_path_](/url#path)

    Given a URL like <http://example.com/fancy/pants>, the _path_ is everything
    in the URL after the [name of the server](/url#server-name) (`/fancy/pants`
    in this case).

    `get("/hello")` matches any [`GET` request](/http-get-request) for a URL with the path `/hello`.
    `post("/hello")` matches any [`POST` request](/http-post-request) for a URL with the path
    `/hello`.

2.  How do we specify which code to call for a match?

    We specify the code-to-be-called with a `do ... end` block.  In the route

    ```ruby
    get("/hello") do
      body("<p>Hello, world!</p>")
    end
    ```

    the code-to-be-called is everything after the `do` keyword and before the
    corresponding `end` keyword.

3.  How does the code-to-be-called specify a response?

    We specify a response by calling the `body` method and passing it a
    `String` containing the HTML we want the browser to render. Sinatra will
    generate the other parts of the request for us and send everything back
    to the requesting browser.
